---
template: blog-post
title: SocialFi Projects Overview
slug: /socialfi
date: 2022-11-11 10:46
description: SocialFi projects overview
featuredImage: /assets/socialfi.png
---
<br/>

### Atem Network
Atem.io

**Introduction:**
Atem is a decentralized content creation protocol with the goal of helping creators tokenize their content and build a web3 native community.

**Atem Protocol:**
- Decentralized storage：All text content generated on Atem will be stored in ARWeave, and rich content such as pictures, gifs will be stored in IPFS.
**NFT Standard:**
- Content NFT: Creators can make their content into NFT, which other users are able to collect for a fee
- Creator NFT: Creators can distribute the NFT for linking and managing their own communities.

All the NFT's are created using the ERC-1155 parent contract for easy trading.

**Product:**
- AtemReview：Content sharing platform. Creators can create and share their work as Content NFT. Other users can comment and Collect the NFT.

- AtemChat: The Web3 community social platform allows creators to easily connect and interact with their fans through their NFTs. When users connect the wallet, they will automatically join the NFT Channel supported by the platform. Users can Bid for an NFT directly within the community, and the NFT owner will receive a private message and choose whether or not to accept the offer to complete an NFT transaction.
<br/>

<br/>

### Farcaster

Farcaster.xyz

Github: https://github.com/farcasterxyz

Farcaster enables complete decentralized socialization through a hybrid architecture of on-chain and off-chain components. User's identity is stored on a chain of Ethereum smart contracts. Ethereum addresses controls this on-chain identity and can be used to sign off on its behalf for messages off the chain. Data is signed encrypted by identity and stored on a server controlled by users called Farcaster Hubs. Data is not stored on the chain, as gas is very expensive and slow on most L1 and L2 networks.

This APP is currently in private beta.

- Identity: Farcaster ID Registry (FIR) 和 Farcaster Name Registry (FNR)。 FIR is a user's ID generated by interacting with a smart contract and is the only credential that identifies a user in the Fracaster protocol. Through the FIR you can find the user's home page and all the information stored in the Farcaster Hub. FNR is similar to ENS in that it is an NFT as a user name and is optional.
- Hub：The Hub is an always online server that authenticates, stores, and copies signed messages. Anyone can start the hub server or use a third-party service. Users can also configure his Hub to copy data from other hubs. Followers will then be able to see the latest updates from KOLs.


Farcaster Protocol is a bit like a combination of Lens Protocol and Comm.

<br/>

### Paragraph

Paragraph.xyz

Established in 2021 by Colin Armstrong, Paragraph enables the Web3 domain author, DAO and NFT community to monetize their content through an integrated messaging service. Content creators and community builders can use NFT or ERC-20 tokens to manage their users or fans through the membership mechanism.

**Products:**
- Content creation, similar to Mirror.
- The Newsletter is distributed to subscribers.
- Create tokens and send newsletters only to token holders.

<br/>

### BlueSky

https://blueskyweb.xyz/

Github: https://github.com/bluesky-social

A decentralized social project funded by Twitter founder and former CEO Jack Dorsey. The main idea is similar to Lens Protocol, with a protocol layer and an application layer on top.

**Protocol layer：** 
Authenticated Transfer Protocol https://atproto.com/
- Portable Accounts：The data belongs to the user, and the account can be migrated to different platforms at will.
- Algorithmic choice：Users can be more active in choosing what type of information they will see.
- Interactive：Lexicon
- Performance：Optimized performance

**Application layer：** BlueSky waitlist is open for registration.

<br/>

### Ceramic

https://ceramic.network/

Ceramic is a middleware built on decentralized storage. It is a decentralized data network that provides composable data services for web3 Dapps.

It solves the pain point of dapp using IPFS directly, and CID needs to be changed every time data is updated. Ceramic uses Stream as source control, a kind of existence similar to git. StreamID remains the same whenever content changes, so it's easy to store modified versions or track back to previous versions without having to change the CID hash frequently. In addition, Ceramic builds a new layer on top of other storage protocols, meaning that it is highly composable. Users can choose where to store their data, including decentralized Arweave, Filecoin, centralized AWS, and more.

This efficient version control enables dynamic storage solutions that have attracted many DApps, such as CyberConnect, Orbis, The Graph, and more.

<br/>

### Deso

https://www.deso.com/

Developer Docs: https://build.deso.com/#/main/welcome

DeSo is a brand new Layer1 blockchain for decentralized socializing and extending storage-intensive applications to billions of users. The whole blockchain is designed for decentralized social application. All the operations of social interaction, such as follow, post and like, are all on the blockchain, and all the data is also stored on the chain.

The project was previously called BitClout, and the token was Deso. Here is the Deso ecosystem: https://signup.deso.com/explore



